add c++ solution to the cow run (gold) (#2819)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-265.mdx

---
id: usaco-265
source: Old Gold
title: The Cow Run
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_cowrun_mar13.html)

## Explanation

When we go from one point to another, it's optimal to pick up every cow along the way, so the list of cows that we visit will always form a subarray in the sorted list of a cows.

So, we'll sort the cows by their position.

However, the optimal solution might involve going from one side to another as well. To account for this, let's use [range DP](https://usaco.guide/gold/dp-ranges)

#### States

> We have to keep track of the cows that we've used. Since this'll always be a range, we'll represent it as $i$ and $j$ (the endpoints of the interval).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have to keep track of the cows that we've already picked up. Since this'll always be a range, we'll represent it as $i$ and $j$ (the endpoints of the interval).
```

---
id: usaco-265
source: Old Gold
title: The Cow Run
author: Ryan Chou
---
 
[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_cowrun_mar13.html)

## Explanation

> Since we'll always want to pick up a cow when we can, the list of cows that we've visited will form a subarray in the sorted list of cows.

Reviewer 2: > when we can

wdym "when we can"?
how about
"when we go from one point to another, it's optimal to pick up every cow along the way"

Author: okeee

So, we'll sort the cows by their position.

> However, we can't always just go from one side to another. In some cases, it might be more optimal to go back and forth from one side to another.
> 
> Let's use a range DP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the optimal solution might involve going from one side to another as well. To account for this, let's use [range DP](https://usaco.guide/gold/dp-ranges)

```

Author: it's already in the module? but sure

#### States

We have to keep track of the cows that we've used. Since this'll always be a range, we'll represent it as $i$ and $j$ (the endpoints of the interval).

We also have to keep track of which side we're on (the left or right).

> $\texttt{dp}[i][j][k] = \hspace{0.1cm}$minimum cost to visit all of these cows. 

Reviewer 2: maybe explain all the variables right here

Author: don't i?

ill change it for $k$

Reviewer 2: oh yeah i'm dumb

#### Transitions

There are four possible cases. Here, $k=0$ means that Farmer John is on the left of the interval, and $k=1$ means Farmer John is on the right.

$\texttt{dp}[i][j][0] = \min(\texttt{dp}[i + 1][j][0] + |x[i + 1] - x[i]| \cdot \texttt{remaining}, \texttt{dp}[i + 1][j][1] + |x[i] - x[ij| \cdot \texttt{remaining})$

$\texttt{dp}[i][j][1] = \min(\texttt{dp}[i][j - 1][1] + |x[j - 1] - x[j]| \cdot \texttt{remaining}, \texttt{dp}[i][j - 1][0] + |x[i] - x[j]| \cdot \texttt{remaining})$

For each side, we have to consider whether to continue going the same way or to visit the next cow on the opposite end.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	freopen("cowrun.in", "r", stdin);
	freopen("cowrun.out", "w", stdout);
	
	int n;
	cin >> n;

	vector<int> pos(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		cin >> pos[i];
	}

	sort(pos.begin(), pos.end());

	/*
	 * dp[i][j][k] = min cost of visiting all cows within the range
	 * i = left endpoint
	 * j = right endpoint

> 	 * k (0/1) = current side

Reviewer 2: inclusive or exclusive (for i and j)?

Author: inclusive, ill clarify
